finishing your jewelry pieces is one of
the most important and valuable skills
to have in this tool demo learn to use
the Fordham bench slave for quick and
easy techniques to get a beautiful shine
on your jewelry projects the Fordham
bench slave with tapered spindles is a
powerful variable speed lathe in a
compact size which is perfect for your
jewelry bench its permanent magnet motor
is extremely quiet and smooth running
with all the power and speed required
for a variety of polishing buffing and
grinding jobs the cool tools bench lathe
kit comes with six buffing wheels and
four polishing compounds the bench lathe
features two tapered spindles on each
side suitable for multiple attachments
buffs and accessories the feet are
suction feet so the bench lathe will not
move while buffing it also features
mounting slots to permanently attach the
base to your jewelry bench the front
features a variable speed knob for easy
control over the motor which operates
from 500 to 7,000 rpms this bench slave
looks small but has enough power to fit
almost any jewelry project first let's
get started by mounting up the tapered
spindles each spindle is labeled with an
L and an AR it's very important to mount
the spindles on the correct side since
they are threaded in the proper
direction each spindle features two
simple set screws which are tightened
and loosened with an allen wrench which
is included simply slide the spindle on
the motor mount and hand tighten both
set screws
now the lathe is ready flying a buff is
very simple first turn your motor on the
Fordham bench lave can take up to four
inch diameter buffs like this one here
simply add the buff to the spindle
carefully and it threads itself to apply
polishing compound you'll want to be
sure to hold your bar in the lower front
quarter of the spinning buff buffing and
polishing produces a certain amount of
dust so be sure to wear safety goggles
when using the bench lathe after loading
the buff with polishing compound you're
ready to start polishing
you can see here the beautiful shine
that the bench lathe has given your
piece after polishing simply unscrew the
buff to remove from the spindle there
are several accessories and attachments
available for purchase for the fordham
bench lathe the lathe works great with
3m s radial bristle discs for all sorts
of polishing applications these are used
with spindle adapters which come in two
halves the spindle adapters need to be
applied with the threaded half facing
towards the motor simply stack five to
six bristle disks together to use with
the spindle adapter be sure to apply
your 3m disks with the bristles facing
down as seen here so it does not spin
against the bristles the radial bristle
discs are color coded by grit ranging
from 80 grit to one micron
at slower speeds the bristles get in to
all the details on your piece at higher
speeds like this one it begins working
quickly and polishing
cool tools offers an optional filter
hood to catch dust and help keep your
work area clean the filter hood comes
with three filters that are removable
and also a removable waterproof tray as
well as an adjustable light
the speed is also adjustable and it's
very lightweight
another attachment for the bench lathe
is a flex aid a flex aid allows you to
use your bench slave as a versatile
flexible shaft machine the Flex 8 can
only be attached to the right side of
the motor to attach simply remove the
tapered spindle and slide onto the
coupling and tighten the set screws now
apply your handpiece and you have a
flexible shaft and yet another
application for using the Fordham bench
lathe using the Fordham bench slave with
all of its accessories allow any jewelry
artist to easily polish buff and grind
their custom pieces to create beautiful
jewelry creations visit our Learning
Center at wwq tools US for more cool
jewelry making videos subscribe to our
YouTube channel like us on facebook
follow us on twitter and be sure to sign
up for our email list to be the first to
hear about new videos new products
contests and other cool stuff from cool
tools